---
title: "Countdown to Dec 15: how is France doing?"
date: 2020-11-27
classes: wide
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - covid
  - confinement
  - restrictions
---

In case you recently emerged from under a rock, last Tuesday President Macron told the nation that we would be ~~set free~~ allowed to move freely IF we manage to lower the numbers further by Dec 15.

These targets were **under 5000 new daily cases**, and **fewer than 3000 Covid patients in ICU**.

## Decreases so far

{% raw %}<iframe width="100%" height="700" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~limegimlet/551.embed?showlink=false"></iframe> {% endraw %}

### How long to reach these targets?

Below are projections that simply use the average daily decrease since peak to estimate how many more days are needed.

NOTE: Testing numbers lag 2 days behind ICU numbers

### New cases (7-day rolling average)

|**Data from 2020-11-24**
Max Covid cases 7-day avg (2020-11-02)|47607
Num days since max|22
Today's Covid cases 7-day avg|11367
Dec 15 target|5000
Daily avg chg rate|-0.035
Days needed to reach target at this rate|4
**Projected date to reach target**|**2020-11-28**

Looking at the plot, decreases look like they've slowed in the past week.
This makes me think it will take more than 4 days from Nov 24, which happens to be tonight (remember: there's a reporting lag, so the most recent test data is from 3 days ago).

Next time I do an update, I'll project days remaining with  the 7-day rate of change instead.

Another thing to look at is whether the introduction of antigen tests is affecting these numbers, which are for PCR test results only.

### Covid ICU patients

 |**Data from 2020-11-26**
Max Covid ICU patients (2020-11-16)|4867
Num days since max|10
Today's Covid ICU patients|3980
Dec 15 target|3000
Daily avg chg rate|-0.018
Days needed to reach target at this rate|11
**Projected date to reach target**|**2020-12-07**

In contrast to cases, the decrease seems to be speeding up in the last 3 days. Again, will use 7-day avg change rate next time I do an update.

Overall when you compare the y-axis scales for both plots, you can see just how much longer it takes for ICU numbers to go down.
